What do you is the most beautiful speaking of hyenas? Uh,
what do you use the most beautiful, uh,
nature inspired algorithm in your work that you've come across?
Something maybe earlier on in your work or maybe today?
I, I think it evolution, uh, computation is the most amazing method.
So what, what fascinates me most is that, uh,
with computers is that you can, you can get more out than you put in. I mean,
you can write a piece of code and your machine does what you told it. I mean,
this happened to me my freshman year.
It did something very simple and I was just amazed.
I was blown away that it would,
it would get the number and it would go compute the, the result.
And I didn't have to do it myself, very simple. Uh,
but if you push that a little further,
you can have machines that learn and they might learn patterns, uh,
and already say deep learning neural networks,
they can learn to recognize objects sounds, um,
patterns that humans have trouble with. And so they do it better than humans.
And that's so fascinating. And now if you take that one more step,
you get something like evolution algorithms that discover things,
they create things. They come up with solutions that you did not think of.
And that just blows me away.
It's so great that we can build systems algorithms that can be in some
sense smarter than we are.
It can discover solutions that we might miss mm-hmm <affirmative>. Um,
a lot of times it is because we have as humans, we have certain biases,
we expect the solutions to be certain way,
and you don't put those biases into the algorithm,
so they are more free to explore.
And evolution is just absolutely fantastic Explorer. And that's what,
what really is fascinating.
Yeah. I think, uh, I get made fun of a bit,
cause I currently don't have any kids, but you mentioned programs. I mean,
um, do you have kids? Yeah. So maybe you could speak to this,
but there's a magic to the creation creative process. Like I, uh, with,
with spot the Boston dynamic spot,
but really in your robot that I ever worked on,
it just feels like the similar kind of joy I imagine I would have as a father,
not the same perhaps level, but like the same kind of wonderment,
like that's exactly this, which is like, you know,
what you had to do initially, uh, to get this thing going, uh,
let this speak on the computer science side, like what the program looks like,
but something about it, uh,
doing more than what the program was written on paper is,
is like that somehow connects to the magic of this entire universe.
Like that's, that's like, I,
I feel like I found God every time I like it's like, uh, cause you're,
you've really created something that's living. Yeah. Even if it's, it has a.
Life of its own has the intelligent of its own.
It's beyond what you actually thought. Yeah. And that is,
I think it's exactly spot on. That's exactly what it's about. Uh,
you created something and has a, a ability to, uh, live its life and,
and do good things. And, um, you just gave it a starting point.
So in that sense, I think it's, that may be part of the joy actually.